JUDY WOODRUFF: Good
evening. I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Facing revolt from inside the
party, Republican senators delay
a vote on health care reform,
as President Trump calls them
to the White House to keep
the pressure on.
Then: Tensions rise,
as the White House
warns Syria's president
against another chemical
weapons attack.
And in the second part of my
interview with Warren Buffett,
one of the world's wealthiest
men talks about philanthropy,
what keeps him going, and tax
breaks under the Republican
health care bill.
WARREN BUFFETT, Chairman and
CEO, Berkshire Hathaway: You
could entitle this, you know,
Relief for the Rich Act or
something, because it -- I have
got friends where it would have
saved them as much as
-- it gets into the
$10-million-and-up figure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus,
the Nashville sound.
Acclaimed singer-songwriter
Jason Isbell finds
music in life's
tough conversations.
JASON ISBELL, Musician: A lot
of people in my family told
me growing up that cities were
terrible places and anything
outside of our little circle
was scary and dangerous and
frightening. And so I wrote that
song based on that kind of fear.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The United
States Senate will not try to
repeal and replace the Obamacare
health care law until after
the Fourth of July recess.
Republican leaders gave up today
on getting a vote this week.
Our Lisa Desjardins
begins our coverage.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: Legislation of
this complexity almost always
takes longer than
anyone else would hope.
LISA DESJARDINS: Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell was
forced to accept the reality:
Not enough Republicans are
ready to vote for the Republican
health care bill as it stands
now. At least five Republicans
said they opposed even beginning
debate. That's three more than
McConnell can afford to lose.
So now it's time to revise.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL:
Consequently, we will
not be on the bill this
week, but we're still
working toward getting
at least 50 people in
a comfortable place.
LISA DESJARDINS: McConnell's
math got tougher after Monday's
report from the Congressional
Budget Office. It found the
current Senate bill would
leave 22 million more uninsured
by 2026 than under Obamacare.
That includes 15 million who
would lose Medicaid coverage.
The average premium
would decrease in 2020,
but plans would offer
less coverage and have
substantially higher
out-of-pocket costs.
Supporters of the bill
highlighted the CBO
conclusion that it would save
$321 billion off deficits.
And Alabama Republican Richard
Shelby reminded his colleagues
that they all campaigned on
repealing Obamacare.
SEN. RICHARD SHELBY
(R), Alabama: We need
some votes. And a lot of
people ran on repealing
it. Now we're going to see
if they keep their word.
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R), Maine:
It is difficult for me to see
how any tinkering is going to
satisfy my fundamental
and deep concerns about
the impact of the bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: The bill
hit problems from two
sides. Moderate Maine
Senator Susan Collins
said she is a no because
of a one-year defunding
to Planned Parenthood
funding and also because
of sharp cuts for those
on Medicaid. Medicaid
is also a concern for
Dean Heller, whose state
of Nevada has expanded Medicaid
under the Affordable Care Act.
Meanwhile, several GOP
conservatives, Rand Paul, Mike
Lee, Ron Johnson and Ted Cruz,
said the bill doesn't repeal
enough and spends too much on
subsidies. Party leaders mounted
a full-court press to convert
those no votes. Vice President
Pence met with senators at
the Capitol, and President Trump
held a private meeting with
Rand Paul at the White House.
Democrats, meanwhile, remained
uniformly opposed to the bill.
They hosted a protest on the
steps of the Capitol, holding
pictures of constituents
they said would lose coverage
under the Republican plan.
Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer:
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER
(D-NY), Minority Leader:
If our Republican
colleagues stick to this
base bill, which so
hurts working families,
which so benefits
multimillionaires, and them
almost alone, we're going to
fight the bill tooth and nail.
And we have a darn good chance
of defeating it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Late today,
buses ferried Republican
senators to the White House for
a sit-down with President
Trump to talk things over.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: So, we're going
to talk and we're going to
see what we can do.
We're getting very close.
And if we don't get it
done, it's just going
to be something that we're
not going to like, and that's
OK, and I understand that very
well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then later
this evening, Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell spoke
to reporters and defended
the prospects of getting
a bill passed eventually.
And Lisa, who has been
running around on the hill
all day long, joins us now.
So, Lisa, where do things stand?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, they
do want to take a vote after
the July 4 recess, so a lot of
folks are saying, oh,
they will come up with
a bill in the meantime
while they're on recess.
No, Judy. I talked to
Senate Republican Conference
chairman John Thune.
He said they want the
revise their bill and get out
a new draft this week, which
is ambitious. They want to
do it before senators go home.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, in your
assessment from talking to all
these senators, what is the
main problem here? Why
is this failing so far?
LISA DESJARDINS: There
were a couple problems.
One, the CBO score, Judy.
The bill was already
in trouble, as we had
reported on Monday. But
when that score came out...
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is the
Congressional Budget Office.
LISA DESJARDINS: The
Congressional Budget
Office score, which
showed that 22 million
Americans lose insurance.
And not just that. It was
the depth of that 50-page CBO
report that Republicans really
got thinking about. Senator
Bob Corker told me he read it
at 4:00 a.m. this morning and
asked for CBO to come up and
give a briefing today. They did.
Also, Judy, Republicans weren't
ready. Some of them hadn't
even read this bill, like Chuck
Grassley, who I saw today
carrying the bill. He told
me he hadn't read it yet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, given all
that, what is it going to
take to get them to 50 votes?
LISA DESJARDINS: Leadership
obviously isn't sure yet, but
they have more money to spend.
They think we will see
more money on opioids,
for example, which is
something that is popular,
health savings accounts,
something that most Republicans
agree on, but no one can answer
that question, Judy, yet.
Do they decrease the Medicaid
cuts somehow? Unclear. Do they
shift how they're reforming
the Affordable Care Act?
Unclear. It's very a difficult,
tricky, formula. They say they
can do it, but they obviously
haven't figured out how yet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And finally
the role of President
Trump in all this?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
There are question marks
about that. Some say they were
worried that this meeting today
would be one where he makes
Republicans feel better, but
actually doesn't do anything to
change this bill. There are
others, like John McCain, who
said this kind of a situation
requires presidential
leadership. Clearly,
the president is
showing that tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins
has been reporting and will go
back to reporting after this.
Thank you, Lisa.
And we will talk to
Republican Senator Rand
Paul about his concerns
with health care legislation
right after the news summary.
In the day's other news: A
new cyber-attack caused major
disruptions across Europe and
elsewhere. Ukraine was hit
hard, where banks and the power
grid were breached. Government
computers also locked up, as
so-called ransomware scrambled
data until payment is made. Also
affected, Russia's state-run
oil company was hit, along
with Danish shipping giant A.P.
Moller-Maersk and U.S.
drugmaker Merck and Company.
Last month, a similar attack
spread to 150 countries.
The U.S. State Department has
declared China to be among
the worst countries tolerating
human traffickers in the world.
The annual listing today put
China in the same category
as North Korea,
Syria and Zimbabwe.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
said China's record is marred
in part by its continued
support of North Korea.
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary of
State: The North Korean regime
receives hundreds of millions
of dollars per year from the
fruits of forced labor. China
was downgraded to tier-3 status
in this year's report, in
part, because it has not taken
serious steps to end its own
complicity in trafficking,
including forced laborers from
North Korea that are located
in China.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even before the
announcement, China's Foreign
Ministry rejected the findings.
Brazil's President Michel
Temer is now facing corruption
charges. The country's attorney
general formally accused him
last night of taking a bribe
of $152,000. Temer called the
charge fiction. The lower
house of Brazil's congress will
decide if it has merit. Temer
took office in May,
when President Dilma
Rousseff was impeached.
European antitrust officials
fined Google a record $2.7
billion today. In Brussels,
the E.U. competition
commissioner said the
Internet giant highlights
its own businesses
and buries search
results for rivals.
MARGRETHE VESTAGER, European
Commission: What Google has done
is illegal under E.U. antitrust
rules. It has denied
other companies the chance
to compete under merits
and to innovate, and,
most importantly, it has denied
European consumers the benefits
of competition, genuine choice
and innovation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Google
has 90 days to change its
ways in Europe or face
additional penalties.
Back in this country,
three current and former
Chicago policemen were
indicted today in the
killing of a black teenager,
Laquan McDonald, by a white
officer. They are accused of a
cover-up. McDonald was shot 16
times by Officer Jason Van Dyke
in October 2014. He was charged
with murder a year later,
after video of the incident was
released. Van Dyke is in jail
awaiting trial.
And on Wall Street, selling
gained momentum after the
health care bill's delay raised
new questions about
the Trump agenda. The
Dow Jones industrial
average lost nearly 99
points to close at 21310.
The Nasdaq fell 100 points,
and the S&P 500 slipped 19.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Republican Senator Rand Paul
on divisions over the health
care bill; the White House warns
Syria about chemical weapons
preparations; Warren Buffett
opens up about his
personal taxes and
philanthropy; and much more.
And back to the battle
over health care.
I spoke a short time ago with
Republican Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky, one of the key votes
that could determine the
future of the GOP effort to
repeal and replace Obamacare.
Senator Paul, thank you
very much for joining us.
Is there any doubt in your
mind, if the vote had gone ahead
today or tomorrow, that the
bill would have failed?
SEN. RAND PAUL (R), Kentucky:
Yes, I don't think there were
enough votes, but I think
there also just hasn't
been enough time to
have a full discussion.
We just got the bill last week.
We just got the CBO score on
Monday. So, there needs to
be a little bit more time
to absorb this, then also to
discuss, what are the changes
that the leadership
might be open to in
order to get it to pass?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
of that, you met with President
Trump at the White House
earlier today. You tweeted
after your meeting, you
said: "@realDonaldTrump
is open to making
the bill better. Is
the Senate leadership?"
My question to you is -- and
the president is meeting now
with the rest of the Republicans
in the Senate -- what
changes does the president
want to see in this bill?
SEN. RAND PAUL: Well, I don't
think it's so much him lobbing
us for changes. It's us asking
him for help in getting
the changes done.
I think he has the bully
pulpit. He has a great deal of
influence with the Republican
Party on both the House
and the Senate side. And
I think the bill right
now to the conservative
point of view doesn't have
enough repeal. In fact, it
looks like we're keeping a lot
of Obamacare.
Even the architect of Obamacare,
Jonathan Gruber, said, hey,
hey, guys, don't worry,
we're actually keeping
Obamacare. So we actually
think that there needs
to be more repeal.
That's the message
I took to him.
But I also took a specific list
that we're sending to Senate
leadership, and we're saying,
if you address these items,
there's a possibility we could
vote for this bill, but it's got
to look more like repeal and
less like we're keeping it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as you
know, what the president has
said about the House version
of the bill, which many people
said was tougher than the Senate
bill, he said it was mean,
and he wanted a bill
with more heart.
So where are we on this?
SEN. RAND PAUL: You
know, I think there are
various ways you can
characterize both Republican
and Democrat proposals.
President Obama, I think,
wanted what was best for the
country, but I think it didn't
work well. I think we
have the death spiral,
and I think particularly
premiums in the individual
market are going
through the roof.
I think Republicans want what's
best for the country also,
but I think they're not fixing
the death spiral of Obamacare.
They're going to subsidize it
with a lot of taxpayer money.
So, characterizing something as
mean or generous I think goes
to people's motives, and I think
it is sort of why we have such
an angry country now. We think
that people have ill motives.
But I think Republicans want
people to have health insurance.
We want people to be healthy.
So do Democrats. We just believe
in a different type of economic
system or different types
of limitations of government
or more expansive government
and how we can do it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One of the
things, Senator Paul, you have
talked about wanting to do
away with is the Obamacare
tax on individuals making
over $250,000 a year.
That would be money -- that's
the money that's been used to
pay for many of the subsidies
for people with lower income.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's a transfer,
taking money away from those
who have more to give it to
people who have less,
but that troubles you?
SEN. RAND PAUL: No, we
already do quite a bit of
that, and it's call Medicaid.
The problem or the
fundamental flaw of
Obamacare was that they put
regulations on the insurance,
about 12 regulations,
which increased the
cost of the insurance.
And so President Obama
wanted to help poor,
working-class people, but
he actually hurts them
by making the insurance
too expensive to want to buy.
I had someone at the house
just recently was doing some
work, and he said: "Oh, my son
doesn't have insurance,
he's paying the penalty
because it's too expensive."
So, President Obama said,
oh, we want to make insurance
perfect for people, but he added
all these regulatory mandates,
made it too expensive. Young,
healthy people didn't buy
it, and the people remaining in
the insurance pool were sicker
and sicker. That's the adverse
selection and the death
spiral of Obamacare.
And so really we do need
to discuss the intricacies
of what worked and what
didn't work in Obamacare.
And I think the better way to
do this is to let individuals
have the freedom to choose
what kind of insurance is
best for them. The government
doesn't always know best. Maybe
the individual should
be allowed to choose.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, I
hear you, and I have read of
some of the other comments you
have made lately. You have
some very strong views on this.
As you just said, you would
like to do away with
this tax on individuals
earning -- high earners.
You have talked about doing
away with the mandates in
Obamacare. You talk about health
savings accounts. But other
members of the Senate, including
other Republicans, have
very different ideas. They are
worried about these Medicaid
cuts in this legislation.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where
is the common ground?
SEN. RAND PAUL: Well,
that's what we're going
to see, if we can find it.
One of the things that horrifies
me is that we would be giving
taxpayer money to very,
very wealthy corporations.
The insurance companies
make about $15 billion a
year. They have doubled
their profit margin under
Obamacare. And so now we're
going to take a lot of this and
call it a stabilization fund,
but really it's a bailout
of insurance companies.
And I just think that's wrong.
I just can't see why ordinary,
average taxpayers would
be giving money to very,
very wealthy corporations.
An analogous situation
would be this: We all
complain that new cars cost
too much. Why don't we have
a new car stabilization fund
and give $130 billion
to car companies?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN. RAND PAUL: We could do that
in any industry, but it's not
really good economics. What it
is, is, you're simply
transferring money from
the ordinary, average
taxpayers to very wealthy
corporations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Senator,
my understanding is that plan
was put in there to take care
of some of those people at
the lower income level because
of these changes in Medicaid.
I still don't see where the
middle ground is between you,
other Republicans, and certainly
with Democrats.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Actually, the
money in the stabilization
fund, $130 billion which I call
an insurance bailout, is put
in to try to cure the adverse
selection that Obamacare
created by making insurance
too expensive. Healthy
people didn't buy it.
They tried to fix this
by forcing young people
to buy it through an
individual mandate. Even
that didn't work. So the way
the Republicans fix it is they
don't actually fix it. They
subsidize it. So we have
to fix what went wrong with
Obamacare, not just recapitulate
something that's broken.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What you're
saying makes it sound like
you're still uncertain this is
going to pass.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Yes. I'm
uncertain whether it's going to
be enough of a repeal bill for
conservatives. And we need
to adhere to our promise. We
promised people we'd repeal it.
We talked about all the problems
of Obamacare. We shouldn't
leave half of it in place and
expect things to be better.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Rand
Paul of Kentucky, we thank you.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House
today reinforced a stark warning
to the government of Syria's
Bashar al-Assad against
using chemical weapons.
Last night, the administration
announced that the U.S. had
detected -- quote -- "potential
preparations" by the regime to
use the banned weapons, again.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner reports.
MARGARET WARNER: President
Assad was seen today touring
a Russian air base just hours
after last night's White House
statement. It warned that
the Syrian regime would pay
a heavy price for launching
another chemical attack.
Today, the Pentagon elaborated,
saying the U.S. has seen active
preparations for chemical
weapons use at Shayrat air base
near Homs in Western Syria.
Nancy Youssef is senior
national security
correspondent at BuzzFeed.
NANCY YOUSSEF, BuzzFeed: The
Pentagon told us that they saw
evidence of planes that were
used to conduct aerial chemical
attacks in the past being moved
around on Shayrat airfield.
We also heard reports of chatter
happening on the ground in
preparation for a possible
imminent attack. The number
of people who knew was so
limited, and the message from
the White House was so ominous,
that it created a real confusion
that we are just not used
to.
MARGARET WARNER: A chemical
weapons attack was launched
from that same base in April,
killing dozens of men, women
and children. The Syrians denied
responsibility. But President
Trump ordered the U.S.
military to fire 59 Tomahawk
missiles at the base.
Mr. Trump's response was a sharp
departure from his predecessor's
caution about intervening
in Syria's civil war. In 2012,
President Obama famously warned
that the use of chemical weapons
use would constitute a red line,
triggering U.S. action. But
instead, after a deadly August,
2013, attack on a Damascus
suburb, then-Secretary
of State John Kerry
and Russia worked on a
deal with Assad that
aimed to rid his regime
of chemical weapons.
Trump officials say
that strategy clearly
didn't work, and it's
taking a tougher approach
to Syria and its key backers.
U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley
spoke at a House hearing today.
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. Ambassador to
the United Nations: I believe
that the goal is, at this
point, not just to send Assad
a message, but to send Russia
and Iran a message that, if
this happens again, we
are putting you on notice.
MARGARET WARNER: A spokesman
for Russian President Vladimir
Putin retorted: "Such threats to
Syria's legitimate
leaders are unacceptable."
Iran's foreign minister
said: "Another dangerous
U.S. escalation in Syria
on fake pretext will
only serve ISIS," the
Islamic State group.
Since the April 3 U.S.
missile barrage, the
U.S. has had several
confrontations with pro-Assad
forces, shooting down a Syrian
air force jet and an armed
Iranian-made drone. In response,
Russia has threatened to
target coalition aircraft in
certain parts of Syria. Today,
it's unclear what the
broader U.S. strategy is.
NANCY YOUSSEF: Is the
U.S. committed to a
form of deterrence
against the regime for
possible chemical attacks?
And, if so, in what form? Going
forward, will the U.S. put
out a statement every
time it suspects chemical
weapons attacks? Is
that what we are to take
away from yesterday's statement?
MARGARET WARNER: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the second
part of my conversation with
billionaire Warren Buffett.
I spoke with him last week in
Omaha last week at the Nebraska
Furniture Mart, the largest
furniture store in America. It
is just one small piece of a
huge portfolio of investments
owned by his company, Berkshire
Hathaway, but one that Buffett
takes particular pride
in as part of his legacy.
Both the Senate and House
Republican health care reform
bills would roll back taxes that
are part of Obamacare. Buffett
has taken issue with that.
And that's where my
conversation picks up.
One of the things the
Republicans are looking
at, as you know very
well, is doing away with
the so-called Obamacare
surcharge on people
earning a higher income.
WARREN BUFFETT, Chairman and
CEO, Berkshire Hathaway: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Republicans
are looking at taking that
away, or doing away with that,
which would mean a tax
cut, you have said...
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ...
for people like you.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
Well, I brought my tax return
along for the last year. I
filed this on April 15. And if
the Republican -- well, if the
bill that passed the House with
217 votes had been in effect
this year, I would have saved --
I can give you the exact figure.
I would have saved $679,999,
or over 17 percent
of my tax bill.
There's nothing ambiguous about
that. I will be given a 17
percent tax cut. And the people
it's directed at are couples
with $250,000 or more of
income. You could entitle this,
you know, Relief for the Rich
Act or something, because it
-- I have got friends where it
would have saved them as
much as -- it gets into the
$10-million-and-up figure.
But I might point out --
it might be an interesting
question. I think
members of the Senate and
the House get $174,000 a year.
But most of them have -- if
you look at the disclosures,
they have substantial other
income. If they get to higher
than $250,000, as a married
couple, or $200,000 as a
single person, they have given
themselves a big, big tax cut,
if they -- if they
voted for this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
of taxes, let's just use that
as an entry point to talk about
it.
You shared some of your
tax return with us for
2016. Thank you very much.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But before I
ask you about that, how wealthy
are you? I mean, I'm reading
that you're $77 billion?
WARREN BUFFETT: Ninety-nine
percent of my net worth is
in Berkshire Hathaway stock.
Every share of that stock has
been pledged to philanthropy.
So, I'm a trustee for
that stock. So, it will
go to society. And then
the rest will as well.
But if you add up what's in
my name, if we go down to my
safe deposit box, we will find
some stock certificates
that are worth that much.
But as I -- you know, I have
written, they have no utility
to me. They can't do anything
to make me happier. I'm already
happy. I would be happy with,
you know -- certainly with
$100,000 a year, I could be
very happy. And they can't buy
anything for me that I want.
If they did, I would buy it.
And they do have utility
to others, so I have got
this system to essentially
try and translate
that into vaccines and education
and all of that sort of thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The reason I
bring that up, Warren Buffett,
is that that's your wealth,
your worth. And yet, on
your tax return, you earned
$19 million-something.
WARREN BUFFETT: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Nineteen-and-a-half
million last year.
Your effective tax rate was
16.3 percent, which -- we
looked it up. This is what an
average couple, a married
couple, no children, taking the
standard deduction would pay on
an income of $136,000. In other
words, a couple who earned --
you earn 143 times more than
they do, but your tax rate
is the same as theirs.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes, I
have pointed that out
in past, in the past.
And it's even worse than
you say, Judy, because
you're looking at what
that couple would pay
in federal income tax. But they
are also paying payroll taxes,
in overwhelming cases. And
my cleaning lady has a 15
percent tax, you know, just from
Social -- just from the Social
Security that she and
her employer pay, but
it's kind of incredible.
And now they want to cut it.
No, they want to cut it for
me. I mean, you know, they -- I
don't look like somebody
that deserves a cut.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, they --
the Republicans are talking
about lowering taxes...
WARREN BUFFETT: Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... on the...
WARREN BUFFETT: They want to
cut my tax 17 percent. They saw
those figures and were shocked
that I was paying
that much, apparently.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, among other
things, they're talking about
doing away with some of the
- - some of the deductions,
charitable deductions,
maybe, mortgage deductions,
maybe, state and
local tax -- taxes
paid as deductions.
Do you have a thought
about all those?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, you can't
really talk about specifics
without looking at the whole
thing.
But if they're talking about
making it revenue-neutral,
you know, I think if
they're going to make
it revenue-neutral, it ought to
be -- it ought to be something
other than revenue-neutral
to the guys like me. Our
rates should go up, allowing
others to go down somewhat.
I think there ought to be
minimum taxes for people that
make $10 million a year, and a
different one at a million
a year, but certainly
at $10 million a year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: They also, as you
know, want to tackle business
corporate tax rates. They're
talking about the current
corporate rate, lowering it
from 35 percent to 15 percent?
The president has talked about
-- I guess Speaker Paul Ryan
this week said 20 percent.
What would that
mean for you if...
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it
would mean, for Berkshire,
in all probability,
that we would pay less
in U.S. federal income taxes.
But until you see the final
thing, you can't tell. Berkshire
Hathaway is the second largest
corporation on the Fortune 500
this year. I don't know any
case where our competitiveness
is being hurt by the federal
income tax rate on corporations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Estate
taxes, a thought about that?
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, estate
taxes, I mean, I -- you hear
people call it the death tax.
There are going to be
two-and-a-half million
people die in the
United States this year.
How many estate tax returns
are there going to be? Probably
about 5,000. And the interesting
thing is, if I talked to
somebody about welfare
mothers or something
like that, they say how
debilitating it is to have these
food stamps, and it takes away
their incentive to do anything.
If a kid comes out of the right
womb in this country, they
have got food stamps for their
rest of their life. They just
call them stocks and bonds. And
their welfare officer is their
trust officer.
I mean, I think I -- I
think having a significant
estate tax that starts
at a fair-sized level
is -- if you're going to have
to raise $3.5 trillion, I
think that's a good source of
revenue, and that I -- it
shouldn't apply to, you know,
99 percent of the people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have been
very -- I mean, very open about
your own taxes, and people
have taken a look at that,
and they have also looked at
Berkshire Hathaway. It has been
pointed out that Berkshire
Hathaway does take
advantage of the legal
ability to defer taxes,
and...
WARREN BUFFETT: Sure.
Well, that's because...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I saw a
number, something like $75
billion in deferred taxes?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that's we
haven't cashed things that we
-- just like you, if you have
got a stock that's gone up a
whole lot, until you sell it.
But that's just the law. And
we're going to - - we don't
have any of the Cayman Islands
or anything like that stuff.
But we follow the law, and we
got a million shareholders.
And I think they probably
expect us to do that. That
doesn't mean I don't think the
law shouldn't be
changed in some way.
But I follow the law in terms
of my personal return. I do
not send an extra $5 million
to the Treasury.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Your
philanthropy, we have
talked about it a little
bit. It's legendary.
You and Bill Gates, Melinda
Gates have come together and,
I guess, broken all records
imaginable for giving.
At the same time, it's being
pointed out that you're also
making -- you first made that
pledge, what, 10, 11 years ago.
WARREN BUFFETT: 2006, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: 2006.
You're now making so much
more even than you did then.
People are saying, well, wait a
minute, you know, is he
going to be giving more away?
How do you think about that?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I have
got it set up so that, if I make
more, I do give more, because
I'm giving on a schedule,
and that schedule ends
10 years after I die.
So, it's all -- so I'm not
setting up -- and, actually,
they can't use it for endowments
or anything. It has to be
spent within 10 years, really,
after my estate's closed, but
call it after I die.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
much influence do you
think you had on other,
others with wealth, with
means to give, to be as
generous as you have been?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, a lot of
people come back to me on that.
And basically, I said, you
know, if you're extremely rich,
and you have got children,
my theory was, you give them
enough so they can do anything,
but not enough so they can
do nothing. And I have had more
people come back to it, so,
apparently I was smarter in
1980, whatever it was, than
I am now. But that seemed
to have some influence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you
comfortable today with
what you're giving? I
mean, does it feel...
WARREN BUFFETT: It's
exactly what I wanted to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does it
feel like the right thing
to be doing right now?
WARREN BUFFETT: It's the right
thing. It's the right thing,
because it's going -- it's
going to people who believe,
as the Gates, for example, that
every life is of equal value.
I mean, the truth is, I have
got a lot of wealth, little
pieces of paper, says Berkshire
Hathaway on it. They are claim
checks on all kinds of goods
and services in the world.
They can buy anything. I can
buy 400-foot yachts and have 20
homes and all that. I wouldn't
be happier. But they
can buy anything.
And once they move into the
hands of people who are working
like hell on getting something
accomplished in areas I want
them to -- you know, I love
the idea of getting them used,
and that's what they're doing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You said it
wouldn't make you happy to have
a hundred, 200 homes and yachts
and so forth. What does
make Warren Buffett happy?
WARREN BUFFETT: I just have
a lot of fun doing my job.
I mean, I can do anything
I want, basically,
as long as it doesn't
involve athletic ability,
or something like that.
(LAUGHTER)
WARREN BUFFETT: But if it's
something I can buy, I can
buy anything, basically.
I have been on 400-foot yachts,
and I have - - I have lived
the life a little bit with
people that have 10 homes and
everything. And I live in the
same house I bought in 1958.
And if I could spend $100
million on a house that would
make me a lot happier, I would
do it.
But, for me, that's the happiest
House In the world. And it's
because it's got memories,
and people come back, and all
that sort of thing. So, I am
doing what I love to do with
people I love. And it doesn't
get any better than that, Judy.
And -- but I should be. I mean,
why in the hell -- why should
I be working at 86 at something
that I don't like or
with people I don't like?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I see
you're drinking a Cherry Coke.
WARREN BUFFETT: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
do you stay healthy?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I
think I stay healthy partly
by being happy, actually.
I think that -- I think it
really helps if your stomach
isn't grinding all the time,
and you're doing things you
don't want to do, or you're
working with people that -- you
know? So I have gone very
light on the diet advice.
I eat like a normal 6-year-old,
but if you look at the
mortality statistics, I mean,
6-year-olds don't
die very often.
(LAUGHTER)
WARREN BUFFETT: I mean, the
diet's doing something for them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
much sleep do you get?
WARREN BUFFETT: I get quite a
bit of sleep. I like to sleep.
So I will usually sleep eight
hours a night, and that --
no, I have no desire to get to
work at 4:00 in the morning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So many people
look at you and they think,
oh, my goodness, this man,
he's accomplished so much.
He's been so successful.
He's 86 years old, and
he's still going strong.
WARREN BUFFETT: I love it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what do
they -- so, what's the secret?
WARREN BUFFETT: The secret is
to find what you love to do.
I mean, I tell the students
look for the job that you would
take if you didn't need a job.
I mean, it's that simple. And
I was lucky enough to find
it very early in life. And
then the second thing is to
have people around you that make
feel good every day, and make
you a better person than
you otherwise would be.
I have more fun doing this than
anything else I can think of
in the world, and I have seen
a lot of other things you
could do in the world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Warren
Buffett, thank you very much.
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he does
come across as a happy man.
And, for the record,
Warren Buffett is CEO
of Berkshire Hathaway,
which owns BNSF Railway.
It is one of the funders
of the "NewsHour."
Now: a sexual assault
scandal that has rocked
Baylor University, and
ignited questions over
whether the university ignored
the complaints of victims.
The school confirmed in
recent days that it is
also the subject of an
ongoing NCAA investigation.
That's the focus of our weekly
segment Making the Grade.
John Yang has the latest.
JOHN YANG: More than a
dozen women have filed
lawsuits against Baylor,
the country's largest
Baptist university, saying the
school ignored or mishandled
their claims going back several
years.
The school's Board of
Regents has acknowledged
that 19 football players
were accused of criminal,
sexual or physical assault
at one point. One of
them, Tevin Elliot, was
convicted and sentenced
to 20 years in prison.
The head football coach,
Art Briles, was fired,
and the president, Ken
Starr, quit after he
was demoted.
Paula Lavigne is a reporter with
ESPN. She's been investigating
the Baylor case. She's
the co-author of a
forthcoming book on the
case called "Violated:
Exposing Rape at Baylor
University Amid College
Football's Sexual
Assault Crisis."
Paula, thanks for joining us.
Remind us of these allegations.
They have been around for
a while, but remind us of
the scope, how far back
they go, the nature of
the allegations at Baylor.
PAULA LAVIGNE, ESPN: Right.
The allegations go back for more
than a decade. And right now,
in court cases alone, you have
15 different women filing Title
IX federal lawsuits against
the school in cases involving
domestic violence, sexual
assault. But depending
on who you talk to,
there are hundreds of
cases.
And many of them involve
football players, but actually
this is a much larger problem.
They involve regular students,
fraternity members, I mean,
you name it. It is a huge
problem at the school.
And another sort of interesting
layer to it is the fact that
we're talking about the world's
largest Baptist university, and
a lot of these women are saying,
you know, part of the problem
here was that the school's
Christian values really didn't
foster an environment in which
women were encouraged to come
forward or in which their
cases were taken seriously.
And you compound that on top of
the issues with the prominent
football team. And, yes,
the scope, it just touches all
aspects of higher education
and of sexual assault on
campus.
JOHN YANG: And what can the
NCAA do, and what can it
not do in cases like this?
PAULA LAVIGNE: So, that's
a really good question.
So, a lot of people -- if
you're not familiar with college
sports, it's important to know
that the NCAA is sort of the
arbiter over amateur college
athletics, right? And their
purpose is to ensure fair
competition and amateurism, OK?
So, a lot of people think They
want the NCAA to do something
about this. Right? There is
a huge call for the NCAA to
address this. But the issue is
that sexual violence, addressing
sexual violence, addressing
just criminal behavior on
behalf of athletes really isn't
something that's technically
in the NCAA's wheelhouse.
And so for people to
understand what their
scope is, it's important
to understand a particular
term that the NCAA uses, which
is extra benefit, OK? So, and
when we think of extra benefits,
we often think of student
athletes being given
money from boosters or
fancy cars or allowed
to basically skate
on a class, OK?
The NCAA, in this case, for
people who are - - people on
the outside who are familiar
with the investigation and
people who are familiar with
the NCAA are saying, well, one
way they can get enforcement in
a case involving sexual violence
is to say, OK, are these student
athletes getting an extra
benefit if they are being
diverted from judicial affairs,
if they are getting a pass
from local law enforcement,
if coaches or administrators
are hooking them up with legal
counsel and maybe they're not
paying what a regular student
would be paying for that legal
counsel, all of those sort of
things that a regular student
might -- who gets in trouble
might not be afforded?
They're saying, well, maybe the
NCAA can consider that an extra
benefit, and, in that sense,
it could come in and take
some enforcement action.
JOHN YANG: The issue of sexual
assaults on - - sexual violence
on college campuses has
gotten a lot of discussion.
Talk about sort of the bigger
issue here of how colleges even
outside athletic programs
are dealing with that.
PAULA LAVIGNE: It
is a huge issue.
There's been statistics that
have been backed up by numerous
research that one in five women
will experience some sort of
type of sexual assault while in
college. And right now, there's
more than 200 colleges
and universities under
investigation by the U.S.
Department of Education.
However, this is a perfect
time to be talking about
this, because a lot of
the federal government's
civil rights enforcement
actions are being called into
question right now, and one of
those deals specifically with
Title IX. And Title IX is the
venue that the U.S. Department
of Education uses to enforce
how colleges and universities
are addressing sexual violence.
And there are a lot of people
who are saying schools shouldn't
be involved in what is seen
as a criminal matter. And a
problem with that is that that's
pretty short-sighted, because
Title IX does a lot more in
addressing sexual violence than
just determining whether or
not an alleged perpetrator
is responsible for the act.
I mean, one of the -- you
mentioned the case involving
Tevin Elliot. The young woman in
that case, I mean, she saw her
accused perpetrator convicted.
However, her biggest issue was
the fact that she didn't
get the counseling
services, she didn't get
the academic services.
She was basically sort
of left floundering. She
ends up dropping out,
doesn't get to pursue
her dream, and has to
transfer and move back home.
There is nothing in the criminal
justice system that provides
that sort of remedy, and that's
what Title IX is designed to
do. It's designed to force these
schools to address specific
cases of sexual violence, in
part to determine whether or
not someone is responsible.
But the bigger part, the part
that's often ignored, is by
providing a safe campus for
these women to attend, providing
counseling services if they
need them, providing academic
services to make them
whole again, so they can
continue their education.
JOHN YANG: Paula Lavigne
of ESPN, thanks so
much for joining us.
PAULA LAVIGNE: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: China is leading
a trillion-dollar project to
build a 21st century version of
the Silk Road, the trading
routes that once spanned Asia.
And it is on that original Silk
Road, in Central Asia,
where we again catch
up with Paul Salopek.
He is on his Out of Eden
walk. It's an around-the-world
reporting project that
began four years ago.
Hari Sreenivasan
recently spoke with him.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Since we spoke
last time, Paul, you have walked
through Kazakstan, Uzbekistan.
You're in Kyrgyzstan
now. And you are going
to walk into China.
PAUL SALOPEK, Fellow, National
Geographic: My deadlines
are often seasonal, right?
So, I have been crossing deserts
and mountains across Central
Asia, and the trick is to cross
the deserts in the cold part
of the year and the mountains
in the warm part of the year.
And guess what? I haven't
been able to do that so far.
I'm been -- it's reversed.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tell me a
little bit about that desert
crossing. I know you had to plan
ahead and plant stashes
of water into some of the
places along your walk.
But I read one of the
places you walked up
to, your water was gone.
PAUL SALOPEK: Yes, that's right.
It's one of these
physical challenges of
walking across desolate
landscapes. We had to put
some water caches out before.
And I had to walk to them.
And to my great surprise, one
of the caches in that middle
of the Kyzyl Kum, this big
waterless area, this badlands
the size of Arizona,
had been broken into.
And the water had been taken.
And that was a big surprise,
because local shepherds would
probably never do that. They
know how valuable water is. So
I don't know who took it. My
walking partners at the time
and I had to resort to using
the satellite phone to call
in for help.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Who lives out
in these deserts? Tell me about
these nomads. What are these
herders like?
PAUL SALOPEK: Well, it's --
this part of the world, Central
Asia, is one of the two big
hot spots, if you will, left
in our current age in the
early 21st century for pastoral
nomads, for people who still
move with animals. The other
one, of course, is North Africa.
When the steppe turns green,
they go out in the spring and
move their flocks and then
move with their flocks
as their ancestors did.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You have
been following the Silk Road
that millions of people before
you have.
PAUL SALOPEK: The Silk Road
was an artery of trade not
just of luxury item, not just
of commodities, but
of ideas, right?
Buddhism moved along the Silk
Road routes. Inventions like
paper, which conveyed ideas,
people, culture, art, music,
all of these things moved along
these camel caravan roads.
And it's interesting to
be walking them today,
Hari, as we're entering
a phase where there's
been a bit of backlash against
globalism. And the Silk Road
was the first real experiment
in globalization
about 2,000 years ago.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Most of us
would have trouble finding these
countries on a map. But how
have these former
Soviet republics fared?
What's life like there?
PAUL SALOPEK: Kazakstan
got lucky. They had
tremendous energy reserves.
And one of the great challenges,
believe it or not, of walking
with a cargo horse across
these open steppes in today's
day and age was getting
around gas pipelines. They're
everywhere.
So I was kind of bumping into
gas pipelines and turning right
or left, hoping that I would
eventually come to a gate. So,
Kazakstan has done well in this
lottery of natural resources.
Uzbekistan has done less
well. Uzbekistan is an ancient
part of the world, where they
had Silk Road cities that had
many, many tens of thousands of
people -- they had universities,
they had temples -- that has
kind of fallen on harder times.
They don't have the natural
resources that Kazakstan does.
And now I'm in Kyrgyzstan, a
smaller Central Asian republic
that's very mountainous, that
is basically capitalizing on
its natural beauty, eco-tourism
to kind of make its way ahead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk
a little bit about the people
that you have been walking
with.
I imagine that you get to
know these people that you're
walking hundreds of miles with.
PAUL SALOPEK: So, I have walked
about 6,000 kilometers out
of Ethiopia since January of
2013. I have crossed about 13
borders. I have passed through
about a dozen countries and
territories, many
languages within those
territories and countries.
And along most of the way,
about 95 percent of the way,
I have been walking with local
people. That's part of the
project. This is a project about
humanity. It's a project about
what connects us and what
separates us, so I need
to have local people.
And it's truly amazing.
In conversations about,
is the world becoming
more dangerous, is it
becoming more turbulent, I
have to remind my readers that,
at least in my experience,
the world is an incredibly
hospitable place.
And all of these folks who walk
with me, mostly men, but some
women, have become like family
to me. I literally put my
life into their hands. And I'm
being passed like a human baton
from walking partner
to walking partner.
And what does that do?
It gives me great heart.
It gives me great energy.
It proves in a very
concrete way, my safety, that
most people are good and most
people will help you out,
even if they're strangers,
even if they're from another
culture, even if they don't look
like you or speak in the
same words that you speak.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's been
more than four years since
you have been walking on this
story now. What have you
discovered about yourself?
PAUL SALOPEK: As you know,
I covered many conflicts for
many years as a war journalist,
and I saw a lot of the
dark side of human nature.
I have run into a few scrapes
on this project. You know, I
was ambushed twice in Turkey.
I got shot at on the West Bank
and have had my water cache
broken into in Uzbekistan.
But I can remember those
items, those incidents
because they stood out,
because the vast majority
of my interactions with people
across the world on foot has
been fantastically positive.
I think it's simplified my
writing, and I think made it
better. And the same applies
basically to my daily life.
When your world and your
problems and your anxieties are
calipered by your legs and by
the extent that you can walk
in a day, say, 20 miles or
15 miles, it eliminates a lot
of unnecessary worry. You
don't expend too much energy
worrying about things that are
beyond your control.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Paul Salopek,
we wish you the best of luck.
And we will catch up with
you again as soon as we can.
PAUL SALOPEK: Thanks a lot,
Hari. Good to talk again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nashville
has long been considered
the beating heart of
the country music world,
but the new album "The Nashville
Sound" by Jason Isbell is
infusing the genre with rock,
folk and blues.
The Grammy Award winner has
turned heads with his lyrics,
which this time around address
topics like poverty,
race, and love.
Jeffrey Brown recently joined
Isbell on the first stop
of his international tour.
JEFFREY BROWN: In his song
"The Last of My Kind," Jason
Isbell creates a character based
on people he grew up around
in rural Northern Alabama who
fear how the world is changing.
JASON ISBELL, Musician: A lot
of people that I grew up with,
went to school with in Alabama,
and a lot of people in my family
who told me growing up that
cities were terrible places
and anything outside of our
little circle was scary and
dangerous and frightening.
And I thought about the effect
that had on people, when you
start to believe that, and
you let yourself be so afraid
of other people and the outside
world, that you never feel
tethered, you never
feel a connection with
the rest of humanity.
So, I wrote that song
based on that kind of fear.
JEFFREY BROWN: In both ballads
and hard-charging rock 'n' roll
songs like "Cumberland Gap,"
Isbell's storytelling prowess
has made him one of today's most
acclaimed singer-songwriters.
His last album, "MDNMomething
More Than Free," won two
Grammys and achieved the rare
feat of topping folk, rock,
and country charts in 2015.
Now 38, he's back with a new
album titled "The Nashville
Sound," and we joined him and
his band, The 400 Unit, at
the Thomas Wolfe Auditorium in
Asheville, North Carolina, on
the first day of their
new national tour.
Once again, Isbell's
songs are filled with
rural country characters,
this time also reflecting
the nation's political
and cultural fears.
MD+IMD-IMD+IMD-IJASON
ISBELL:
It's
just
hard
to
tell
people
who
are my family that anybody in
government really cares about
them, because I don't think I
can sell that. I don't
think I can convincingly
tell Middle America that
the government gives
a damn.
JEFFREY BROWN: Disaffected
white male, yes?
JASON ISBELL: Yes. Yes,
you hear about that.
And I think a lot of people
try to tell us that that's who
elected our current president,
but I don't necessarily believe
that, because I know a lot of
disaffected white males and
disaffected white people
in general who didn't
vote at all because they
didn't think anybody
gave a damn about them.
JEFFREY BROWN: They just didn't
believe in the political system.
JASON ISBELL: No. They
thought the system had been
broken for a long time.
JEFFREY BROWN: Isbell started
out as many do, in bands that
travel by van wherever the
gigs take them.
His first big break was as a
member of the southern indie
rock band the Drive-By Truckers.
That came to an end when his
drinking and drug abuse grew
so bad, he was thrown out
of the band. It took him
several years to sober up and
restart his life and career.
JASON ISBELL: Before I stopped
drinking, I thought, if I quit
drinking, am I still going
to be funny? Am I still going
to be a good songwriter? Am
I going to still be a rock
'n' roll person? Are
people going to still
want to be around me?
And then, is my creativity
going to be there if I quit
doing these drugs? Am I going to
be able to record in the
studio, these kinds of things?
And now they sound so ridiculous
even just coming out of my
mouth, like, of course, that's
not where the work comes from.
JEFFREY BROWN: But I can
see where the anxiety
comes from, because, I
mean, in your business,
it's a thin line, isn't it,
between kind of making it and
not making it or having success
or not?
JASON ISBELL: Yes. Yes, it's
hard. It's really hard to make a
living writing songs and singing
them, really, really hard.
A lot of people, they try it
out like as a lottery ticket.
And then, if it doesn't work,
they go do something else. But
that's not the tradition that I
come from.
I come from a group of people
who pretty much set themselves
to do this for the rest of
their life, whether it kills
them or not. And that's how
I was early on. That's how
I still am.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now he's on
the road with his wife, Amanda
Shires, herself a singer and
songwriter who performs
on her own and as
bandmate with her husband.
And they're joined by
their almost 2-year-old
"Moon Shadow"-loving
daughter, Mercy Rose.
Isbell's recent breakthrough
success allows some
newfound traveling comforts.
JASON ISBELL: We have recently
gotten to the point where we
can have multiple buses. That's
something I never really thought
that I would get to. Maybe
one bus, that'd be great, with
a trailer behind it with
our gear in it. That was
always the goal for me.
JEFFREY BROWN: This
is how you judge where
you're at, right, by...
JASON ISBELL: Oh, God, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: ... whether it's
a van or one bus or two buses?
JASON ISBELL: Yes. Yes.
It's practical concerns, you
know? Because I have always
made the art I wanted to make,
and I will always do that. So,
I'm going to judge my level
of success by whether or not
I can hear myself on stage,
or whether or not my wife can
come along with me and have
a mirror to put her makeup
on in, and my baby can have a
bunk with this, like, dog gate
that we bought at Petco and
bolted to the outside of the
bunk, so she doesn't roll off
in the middle of the night.
JEFFREY BROWN: In one beautiful
love song on the new album,
Isbell writes and sings
as himself about a future of
joy and sorrow with his wife.
JASON ISBELL: If you can write
a good love song now that
actually adds something to the
canon of love songs, then
you're qualified, in my opinion,
because that's tough. That's
like painting a picture of a
tree that needs to exists. How
many times have people done
that before?
JEFFREY BROWN: Another
song getting much attention
tackles racism in America
today. It's called
"White Man's World."
JASON ISBELL: It's important
for me to just continue to
notice that there are doors that
are open for me that
wouldn't be if I wasn't
white or if I wasn't male.
I'm not guilty about it, and
I'm not ashamed of it. I had
no control over it. And I need
to consider those things,
because, if I don't,
then I'm just running
wild and never really
considering what privilege
that I have and how to make the
world a better place for people
don't get what they deserve.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jason Isbell
and The 400 Unit will tour the
nation this summer and into
the fall.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Jeffrey Brown in
Asheville, North Carolina.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And,
as you heard, he's on
an international tour.
On the "NewsHour" online: A
poet pays homage to the late
writer David Foster Wallace by
finding poems in the pages
of his most famous work.
That and more is on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow evening. For all
of us at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and we
will see you soon.